---
layout: post
series: "Bioinformatics User Forum"
title: Deploying an NGS Pipeline in the Cloud and Roundtable Discussions
author: Vishal Koparde
categories: [seminars]
tags: [BUF, roundtable, NGS pipeline, cloud]
location: ATRF Auditorium
time: 1 - 2 PM
---

Come join us for our next Bioinformatics User Forum meeting on Jan 11 in the ATRF Auditorium in Frederick. Our main speaker, Vishal Koparde, will be presenting a *use-case on developing an NGS analysis pipeline in the cloud*, and then we will break into small groups for roundtable discussions (see details in the agenda below).
 
We will also have an informal lunch-time gathering in the ATRF Atrium prior to the meeting.
 
## Agenda

* 12:00 - 1:00 Informal lunch gathering in the ATRF Atrium. Bring your lunch and enjoy the company of Bioinformatics User Forum members!
* 1:00 - 1:20 Vishal Koparde will be presenting a use-case on developing and deploying an NGS analysis pipeline in the cloud.
* 1:20 - 1:30 Roundtable discussion leaders will present the topics for discussion to the entire group
* 1:30 - 2:00 Break into small groups for roundtable discussions on the following topics:
    * Justing Lack will be leading a discussion on tumor variant analysis. Discussion points may include power, study design, tumor subclonality, or other related topics as determined by the group.
    * Cassandra Philipson will be leading a follow up discussion on [PATRIC](https://patricbrc.org/), which provides integrated data and analysis tools for research on bacterial genomics. Join us if you were able to attend the PATRIC workshop, or if you like to learn more.
    * Yanling Liu will be leading a discussion on image analysis tools for pathological image analysis. What commercial and open source tools are being used? What have you found to be easy to use, integrates with deep learning tools, connects to visualization tools, etc.? What analysis techniques need better tools?

## Meeting Notes

### Tumor variant analysis

* Discussed methods for clustering tumor samples
* Discussed methods for integrative analysis of mutation, CNV, and expression data
* Discussed machine learning approaches for classifying tumor samples (e.g., treatment resistance, subtypes, etc.)
 
### PATRIC

The Pathosystems Resource Integration Center ([PATRIC](https://www.patricbrc.org)) provides users with a free graphical user interface to take them from raw reads through an integrated analysis. PATRIC is built from the RASTtk with additional services for RNA-Seq, variation, model reconstruction and differential expression analysis. Users have access to a host of manually curated public data as well as user-provided private data with detailed summaries and views of integrated analysis results. The number of publicly available genomes is now over 80,000.

Users in attendance discussed general functionality of PATRIC, and Cassandra Philipson answered questions about PATRIC use. For more information about PATRIC, contact [Cassandra](mailto:casandra.w.philipson.civ@mail.mil).

### Image analysis

Discussion on sharing deep learning models for cancer tissue classification on histopathology images.
 
Comparison of web-based whole slide image annotation platforms.
* HistomicsTK
    * Open-source
    * Highly extensible
* HALO (Indica Lab)
    * DL component VGG for CNN (attached to other networks)
    * Collaborative platform
    * Clients with external database -> annotations from outside
    * Mature, stable
    * Commercial
    * Closed-source, but good development support
 
Announcement for upcoming Imaging Data Commons.
 
Performance of CBIIT HPC data management environment for image storage.
